Crime, as stated by Wikipedia, is an unlawful act that is punishable by the State. Crime Statistics are important to understand if the legislative procedures are working or if they require any changes and amendments. Crime analysis plays a major role in supporting the operations of the police department. It helps the department strategize and improve measures in the area where crime is prone to happen. It assists them in problem-solving and evaluates the performance of their department in various zones. If the rate of crime is falling, it would indicate that what the system is doing seems to work. It helps them plan further actions. Here, we figure out patterns of crime, the common areas, and the type of crime that takes place. This helps detectives identify and apprehend suspects. Additionally, crime analysis benefits the police to focus their resources on high-crime places to reduce crime in their community. It reduces the frequency of the crime and its severity. In this course work, I would be working on handling crime data of Los Angeles from 2010-2019 that would include cleaning, processing, exploring, and visualizing the data to find answers to a few research questions. The primary research question here would be the trend in crime occurrence vs. crime reported. The work would include finding if there is any delay in crime reported. Also, which area has the highest crime occurrence rate? What is the most common time a crime is bound to occur and at what time over the years?
